The Federal Reserve announced new trading rules on Thursday following a controversy over trades made by 
senior officials.
The Fed said the new rules will ban policymakers and senior staff from buying individual stocks and 
bonds and will restrict active trading. The central bank pledged to also increase the frequency of 
reporting and public disclosures.
The new policy means senior Fed officials will be limited to buying vanilla investment vehicles such as 
mutual funds.
"These tough new rules raise the bar high in order to assure the public we serve that all of our senior 
officials maintain a single-minded focus on the public mission of the Federal Reserve," Fed Chairman 
Jerome Powell said in a statement.
In an effort to "guard against even the appearance of any conflict of interest in the timing of 
investment decisions," the Fed said policymakers and senior staff "generally" will be required to 
provide 45 days' advance notice for purchases and sales of securities and get prior approval for 
purchases and sales of securities. They will also be required to hold investments for at least one year.
"No purchases or sales will be allowed during periods of heightened financial market stress," the Fed said.
The Fed said the restrictions will apply to officials at regional Fed banks as well as the Fed's 
Board of Governors. The policy will prohibit these officials from holding investments in individual bonds, 
entering derivatives or holding investments in agency securities.
The policy comes as the Fed remains engulfed in a trading scandal. Last month, the heads of the Boston and 
Dallas Federal Reserve banks announced early retirements amid criticism of their trades. Boston Fed 
President Eric Rosengren cited health concerns.
The scandal threatens to block Powell's shot at another four-year term running the Fed. Powell's term 
expires in February and the White House has not said whether he will be renominated.
The announcement also comes just after Senator Elizabeth Warren called for the Fed to reveal a March 
2020 ethics memo that could shed light on the Fed's ethics scandal.
Warren tweeted Thursday that it should be illegal for Fed officials to trade individual stocks, and 
that the officials "must avoid actual and perceived financial conflicts, period."
"There can be no reform without accountability," she tweeted. "That means disclosure of all trades to 
this point by Fed officials. All relevant Fed ethics guidance should be released publicly. And 
independent IG and SEC investigations must be completed promptly and without Fed interference."
As part of the rule changes, regional bank presidents at the Fed will be required to publicly disclose 
financial transactions within 30 days. That would bring them in line with board members and senior staff.
The Fed said the restrictions will be incorporated "over the coming months."
"The changes announced today by the Federal Reserve are long overdue and a good start, but don't go far 
enough," Dennis Kelleher, CEO of financial reform nonprofit Better Markets, said in a statement.
Kelleher, who served on President Joe Biden's agency review team during the transition, said the new 
rules should apply to anyone at the Fed who has possession of potentially market-moving information. 
And he called for senior Fed leaders, including the chair, to be required to put all of their 
investments into a qualified blind trust and be entirely banned from trading. Kelleher also said the 
Fed must still disclose all information and documents related to officials who traded during the pandemic.
"The new policies cannot be used to whitewash the prior bad judgment, failures of leadership and 
violation of the Fed's own policies if not the law," Kelleher said.