Tom Brady congratulated Aaron Rodgers for becoming a "shareholder of the Bears" after the Green Bay 
Packers quarterback's celebration in which he could be heard saying he "owned" the Chicago team.
After scoring a six-yard rushing touchdown in the Packers 24-14 win over their division rivals, 
microphones close to Rodgers heard him goading fans in Soldier Field in Chicago.
"I've owned you all my f**king life!" Rodgers shouted. "I own you. I still own you."
And Tampa Bay Buccaneers quarterback Brady humorously congratulated Rodgers on his new ownership 
role, after he improved his all-time record against the Bears to 22-5.
"I wanted to say congrats to Aaron Rodgers," Brady said on his weekly SiriusXM NFL Radio show on 
Wednesday as he prepares to face the Bears this Sunday. "Obviously, I know he's a great 
quarterback, but I guess he's now a shareholder of the Bears. "I saw a clip of him really 
enthusiastically telling the crowd how happy he is to own Soldier Field. And that's really great 
stuff. He owns the (Milwaukee Bucks) now. Part owner of Soldier Field. So he's got a great career 
beyond football."
When asked about the celebration in the press conference after the win, Rodgers said it was not unprovoked.
"Sometimes, you black out on the field, in a good way," Rodgers said. "But I looked up in the stands, 
and in the front row, all I saw was a woman giving me the double bird. So I'm not sure exactly what 
came out of my mouth next."
And having had some time to consider the celebration, Rodgers said it was definitely a "spur of the 
moment" action.
"When I got down to my knee and looked up, all I could see and hear was obscenities," Rodgers said on 
the Pat McAfee Show on Tuesday. "I didn't plan on telling the crowd that I own them. I think based on 
the statistical reference of my career, win percentage down there against them, definitely our teams 
have done some good things.
"I know I used 'I' a few times, but I do feel like it's a 'we' thing. Really since (Brett) Favre took 
over, we've flipped that entire series on its head. When Favre-y took over, we were double-digits in the 
hole in the all-time series.
"This series has been going on for 100 years plus, and now we're seven up, so it feels good to be on 
this side of it. That was a special moment looking back. I didn't realize how crazy it would go ... I 
love the response of my teammates backing me up."